Hello and welcome this lecture, we're gonna be looking at how we can use the anim graph of an animation
blueprint, this whole new concept hold to new concepts to blend animations together using a series
of variables.
As you can see, I'm changing the variables.
It's changing the blend of animation.
Let's dive in and see how this works.
So he got some semblance of animation here, but obviously it's not dynamic.
It's not particularly interesting.
We need to be able to do animations that are far more complicated than this.
And Unreal has many great built in systems to do this.
The main one being the animation blueprints, which is a blueprint, obviously.
So we're not gonna be doing this in C++ because animations just make sense to be done in blueprints.
And the main point of the animation blueprints is to bring together all the animation logic and allow
us to kind of blend and merge and switch between animations such that our game logic can then drive
that animation blueprint.
So without further ado, let's try and create an animation blueprint.
So in the content browser, you add new.
All right, click.
And we're going to go to animation and select animation blueprints here.
And you'll see right off the bat is asking us to maybe have a parent class.
We don't need a parent class.
We can just use the default.
But it does need a skeleton because like the animations, like these skeletal meshes, they both rely
on the skeleton.
So does the animation blueprint, which means that then it can use all the animations of that skeleton
and it can be used on any of the measures that relate to that skeleton.
Now, obviously, we want the Wraith skeleton here.
So let's go ahead and select that and click.
Okay.
And that's gonna go ahead and create an animation blueprint based off of the Wraith skeleton.
And then for naming convention, we start with a BP underscore, and I'm going to call this the just
shoot her character, basically, because we've got that different prefix.
I think it's clear enough.
It's the animation blueprint for the shoot character.
So if we go ahead and open up that animation blueprints and dock it to our main window, then we're
gonna see an animation blueprint, Ed, which in many ways looks similar to your usual blueprint, Ed..
It's got this main graph area in the middle.
But in some ways, it's different.
So we've got the graph area that's similar.
This is a slightly different graph to what we're used to.
It's called the Annam graph.
You can see there's also an event graph, just like your regular blueprint.
They have an event graph, but there's also something called an anime graph.
We'll get to that in a second.
There's a detailed pane which gives you details about the animation blueprint.
So the class itself, you got the details on that note.
Notice we don't have any components against an animation blueprint.
That's one difference to notes already.
We've got this anime preview editor which allows us to do some stuff with this preview window over here,
why they're not closer to each other by default.
I don't know.
Asset browser.
Just like on the animations allows us to look through animations easily, bring them in to our editor.
And here at the top, right again.
Same as animations and meshes.
We have this view that allows us to quickly switch between the skeleton, the mesh and the animations
and the blueprints that all rely upon that same skeleton.
Then over in the bottom left, you got that my blueprint pane, which is very much the same as my blueprints
on your standard blueprint.
You got your functions, your variables, macros, that sort of stuff is the same.
What's different?
Oh yeah.
We've got the graphs as well.
That's also the same.
But what's different is this animation graphs and animation layers.
Now, we're not really gonna touch upon animation, allows us a bit more of an advance feature that
we don't need.
But the graph, that is what is very important indeed, because the graph is kind of like blueprints,
except we have no execution note.
All we've got is the data that flows through the graph.
And what does flow through the graph?
Well, basically, we're trying to get to this output pose this output animation pose that we should
model our character into.
And we do that by connecting up lots of different nodes to this result node and flowing through that
we end up getting the data.
That is our output.
One simple output that we can go with is, for example, just dragging in an animation into this Annam
graph.
And you can see that it creates a node and it has an output pin, which is an animation pose.
And if we drag that pose onto the output pose and hit compile.
You can see that is just going to show in our preview what this animation blueprint does.
It essentially just plays this ability animation.
And that's pretty much what we're doing at the moment.
Except now he put an extra layer in between.
You know, we're putting a blueprint in instead of just playing the animation directly.
That's not particularly useful in and of itself.
But the different kinds of operations we can do on these poses.
Now, that is useful.
If we.
Right.
Click in the Annam graph, you can see there's a lot of stuff going on here.
I want to search for something called a blend.
And there's a few different.
Things in here.
Let's see if I can find the most useful one we want at the top.
There is a few here, I think blend blend boned by channel blend.
Multi.
We want just the standard blend.
Let's bring that in.
And you can see here we've got a value.
We've got to input poses and one output pose.
So what we can do is we can drag in two different animations.
And we can stick this one's an additive animation, I don't want to bring that in, that's going to
confuse us.
Let's use some animation that we might actually use.
So we were looking at the forward movement we've got.
Jog a hard jog.
Might be more what we want rather than walking.
So let's have a little look at add jog forward.
That might be one thing that we can blend.
And then the other thing we could blend is a jog back.
So let's just look for jog.
And we've got jog, jog, B, W, D, which I think is stands for backwards, forward, backwards.
Let's bring those into our blende node and then output them and see what the results are going to be
when I hit compile.
See, I'm jogging forward.
If I stick my alpha over to one and then recompile, you can see that now I'm jogging backwards and
you can see also as the preview runs, you can see which nodes which where the data is flowing basically
from the jog backwards through the blende node.
And there's nothing coming through that's pin a because Alpha Alpha blends between the two.
Now I can do a point five on the Alpha or anywhere in between.
And that's going to try and play both of the animations and layer them on top of each other, half of
both them.
And obviously when you're dealing with jogging forward and backwards at the same time, that starts
to look a little bit funny, doesn't it?
So what I'm going to do here is I get to remove the jog backwards and put in an idle animation instead.
So where do we have idle?
I'm going to select this idol noncombat and bring that in here.
So now what should happen is if we're at 50 percent.
It's kind of doing this idle noncombat.
Half of that OHA and then half of the joke, whereas if I put it at one, it's going to do 100 percent.
Idle zero.
It's going to do 100 percent.
Now, this is not ideal.
The fact that I keep changing this alpha having to hit recompile.
So what we can do is we can add in a variable to our blueprint.
It needs to be a float so we can go ahead and change the variable type in the details pane to float.
And I'm going to change this to blend amount.
So and then we can drag that in so we can drag in any variables from our blueprint in to the Annam graph
and hook it up to some of the pins hit, compile and Africa.
Back to our Annam preview.
Ed, you can see that it's showing up these variables like that we've created up here the blend amount.
And that means that now if I can just shift that at runtime, I can see and preview what would be happening.
And then basically what's going to happen is our game is going to drive these variables in the animation
blueprint to get the right sort of animation at any particular point during play.
That's what we're going to deal with a little bit later on in this section.
But for now, we're to try and get this animation looking right when we have the right sort of variables
in here.
So it's time for a bit of a challenge, see if you can get set up with an animation blueprint and play
around with the Annam graph.
So I'd like you to add another blend.
We're going to add them up in sequence.
So first you can do one blend.
Its output is going to go into the input of the next blend.
Then select an animation that makes sense.
Such maybe as moving right or left and add some variables that also make sense so that you can tweak
them and look at the preview and you can blend between all of the animations, the idol, the moving
forward and your animation choice, whether it's moving left or right, something like that pulls a
video and have a go.
Just play with these blends.
See if you can make sense of the Annam graph.
Hey, welcome back.
So hopefully you've had a little go.
We're going to go and add in another blende node, so search for Blende and then scroll up for some
reason.
This might be to do with my screen scaling.
Let's go to the BLENDE and bring across that.
See these idle animations.
What do I want to do?
I think I wants to have it move left.
So I'm going to look in my asset browser for jogging and we're going to look for a jogging left animation.
Now, by the way, I do know that blends are not the ideal way to do this.
In the next lecture, we're going to look at a better way of doing this, which is going to be to use
something called a blend space, which automatically allows us to blend movement animations.
That very nice way.
But we're doing this just to get the idea of the Annam graph before we dive into more complicated things.
So we're going to blend between, let's see, left and forward, I think.
So left here and we're going to copy.
Cut.
Or move forward over to be here.
And then we're going to patch that in the output of the blend in to the input to the next blend.
The one that does idle or not does is actually make sense.
Let's think about the variables.
What should the variables be called?
I'm going to have one which is called forewords.
Just forward.
That's quite simple.
And one which is called right or left, because we're choosing a left animation.
So it's going to be a float.
So one of the blends needs to choose between forward and not moving.
So that's going to be let's try and make that our first blend.
We'll hook in the Idol noncombat to a so that Zero Alpha is going to be not moving at one way forward
is one.
Let's hook up that forward variable to Alpha.
At one, it's going to move forward.
Then we're going to bring that into zero of moving left.
That left variable up zero moving left and at one of moving left, we're going to hook up a B..
Basically, we're gonna hook up the jug left.
So if we compile that as a little bit scatterbrained.
But hopefully you get the idea.
Go.
That's the anim preview, Ed.
And we move forward.
You can see that we start jogging.
Reset that.
And if we move left, you can see that we start moving left.
And crucially, if we do both.
Move left.
And start jogging.
We should see a blend a little bit of both.
Hey, we got that food being blended.
If I need to have a little bit less of the left.
50 percent of the left, you can see how kind of moving.
It's a weird looking animation is not blending it particularly well.
But you can see that it's playing both the jog left and the jog forward.
Now, as I said, we're gonna leave these variables more or less intact, but we're going to change
the mechanism by which we actually do the blending to make more sense and use more of those animations
that we're seeing in the asset browser for jocking forward jogging backwards, jogging left, et cetera.
But that's all the subject to the next lecture.
This one we have covered more or less the animation blueprints and how the Annam graph works and why
we have it there in the first place.
So we'll see in the next lecture.
Four more animations.